# Background:
### Easy to use and secure redaction tool “RE-DACT” which allows redaction/masking/anonymization on various input formats based on a gradational scale defined by the user and providing customized output.  Over a time, model will learn and have the ability to generate realistic synthetic data in any sought format. 

# Description:
### The proposed solution is a natural language processing (machine learning) based redaction tool. The tool will redact or obfuscate from original data leaving the output structurally/logically the same but stripped of key identifiers and other content which may in any way allow the identity, actual data, markers or issues in the input content to be revealed. The correlational logic may be appropriately obfuscated based on the degree of redaction. This will have an easy to use GUI and will be available for use on online and offline systems. The degree of the redaction will be up to the user- the higher the degree set by the user, the more the degree of redaction. This will work with all different commonly used formats for text and data sets. Security of data will be assured by ensuring that the input data is not stored or retrievable in any fashion by third party entities. User will have complete control over the input data. It is also an important aspect that sometimes data may be required to be stored or submitted, however specific sensitive details may not necessarily be required.In such a situation- anonymized data authenticated as having being redacted from original would suffice. Declassification processes are long and arduous; anonymization is largely manual or custom script driven. By providing a gradational redaction option, ordinary users can strip away the specificity to the extent of liking-from merely name removal/anonymization to completely synthetic data with only faint traces of original structure/pattern. This can allow generation of large number of databases with realistic but anonymized data that can be shared for learning, growth and commercial ventures.

## Expected Solution: Problem Statement: Easy to use and secure redaction tool “RE-DACT” which allows redaction/masking/anonymization on various input formats based on a gradational scale defined by the user and providing customized output. Over a time, model will learn and have the ability to generate realistic synthetic data in any sought format. 

### Stage 1 Data: Curate and use own data set for building PoC Task/Result: Input/Output: Supports common input formats (text files, images) and basic output formats (redacted files, logs). Web based version Training Dataset: Publicly available dataset can be used for the purpose. Metrics: Precision, Recall, F1 Score on Open Source Testing dataset.

### Stage 2 Data: Dataset will be provided in Grand Finale Task/Result: Input/Output: Expands to handle more data formats (e.g., PDFs, videos) and advanced output options (e.g., redacted versions with annotations). Training Dataset: Diverse data set prepared from commonly used formats Metrics: Precision, Recall, F1 Score on Open Source Testing dataset. Performance/Evaluation Criteria: • PoC will be preferred over just concept or presentation. The performance may be ascertained on the following metrics: • Efficacy of the redaction/anonymization- whether appropriate data has been redacted • Gradational effect achieved based on user preference and ability to calibrate. • Ability to work on a variety of input sources • Security of the input data by minimal retention • Speed • Optimized computing usage and ability to operate at scale. • Ease of use, UI, UX. • Performance benchmarked against COTS solutions. • Web Based and Offline solution. • Minimal API dependency • Use of Secure Coding Practices and cybersecurity built in design....
